# Analysing the effects of using design patterns in a class attendance application

The purpose of this project is to create a software dedicated to tracking student attendance for university courses which will allow the professors using this project to create QR codes associated with a certain course. The students will be able to scan these QR codes in order to confirm their attendence. The project will be implemented using several design patterns and architectural models, the ultimate goal being to analyze the effects of these models on the application performance. 

## Project Scope

- **Implement a two-platform system** that will allow professors to generate QR codes for tracking attendance while also allowing students to scan the generated QR codes to confirm their attendance.
- **Apply predefined Design Patterns and Architectural Models** to the system implementation.
- **Analyze the impact** of applying said Design Patterns and Architectural Models
- **Measure the performance of the system** using predefined metrics and evaluate the differences associated with using different architectural or design styles.

## System Functionalities & Description

### Application Description

The "Attendance List" project will be composed of two applications for two difference platforms. 

The first application will be represented by a web portal. Professors will be able to access this portal, which will contain a list of their taught classes as well as a list of the students enrolled in each course. Once they select a course, the professor will be able to generate a QR code for tracking the course attendance for the day. 

The second application will be a native mobile app. The students will log into this application using their course platform credentials, and then they will use this to scan the QR code generated by the teacher. The application will send the name of the student, the attendance status and the time of the scan to the server. 

At the end of the course, the teacher will be able to view the complete list of students that attended the course. 

### Web Portal Functionalities

While using the web portal, the professor wil be able to:
- **Authenticate into the portal** using their credentials
- **View their assigned courses**
- **View the students assigned to their courses**
- **Create an attendance QR code** associated with a specific course
- **View the final attendance list** containing the name of the attending students
- **Download the final attendance list** in a spreadsheet format

### Mobile Application Functionalities

While using the mobile application, the student wil be able to:
- **Authenticate into the mobile application** using their credentials
- **Scan the QR code** generated by the professor

## Design Patterns & Architecture - WORK IN PROGRESS

To properly analyze the impact of design patterns, the first version of the system will be unoptimized and intentionally disregard any design patterns, while applying several Anti-Patterns. Our goal here is to see the impact that Anti-Patterns such as Spaghetti Code have on the performance, readability and quality of our system.

For our second iteration of the system, we want to apply the following the following Design Patterns:
- // TO DO

## Metrics & Performance - WORK IN PROGRESS

- Memory Usage
- Presence of Memory Leaks
- Code Complexity
- Code Duplication 

## Structure & Components - WORK IN PROGRESS

- Student Database
- Course Database
- Web Portal
- Mobile Application
